scpivs44_remove_plugin.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: scpivs44_remove_plugin.html
keywords:
summary:
---

= Remove SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
If you no longer need to use the SnapCenter data protection features, you must disable the SnapCenter VMware plug-in to unregister it from vCenter, then remove the SnapCenter VMware plug-in from vCenter, and then manually delete leftover files.

.Before you begin

* You must have administrator privileges.
* Make sure that no SnapCenter jobs are running.

.Steps

. Log in to the SnapCenter VMware plug-in management GUI using the format `https://<OVA-IP-address>:8080`.
+
The IP of the SnapCenter VMware plug-in is displayed when you deploy the plug-in.

. Click *Configuration* in the left navigation pane, and then unselect the Service option in the *Plug-in Details* section to disable the plug-in.
. Log in to VMware vSphere.
. In the left navigator screen, right-click the instance of the SnapCenter VMware plug-in (the name of the `.ova` file that was used when the virtual appliance was deployed) and select *Delete from Disk*.
. Navigate to `/etc/vmware/vsphere-ui/vc-packages/vsphere-client-serenity/com.netapp.scvm.webclient-4.5.0.5942045/plugins` and manually delete the following files in the pickup folder of the vCenter server:
// BURT 1378132 observation 61, March 2021 Ronya
+
`vsc-httpclient3-security.jar`
`scv-api-model.jar`
`scvm_webui_service.jar`
`scvm_webui_ui.war`
`gson-2.5.jar`

. If you used the SnapCenter VMware plug-in to support other SnapCenter plug-ins for application-consistent backups, log in to SnapCenter and remove the vSphere host.

.After you finish

The virtual appliance is still deployed but the SnapCenter VMware plug-in is removed.

After removing the host VM for the SnapCenter VMware plug-in, the plug-in might remain listed in vCenter until the local vCenter cache is refreshed. However, because the plug-in was removed, no SnapCenter VMware vSphere operations can be performed on that host. If you want to refresh the local vCenter cache, first make sure the appliance is in a Disabled state on the SnapCenter VMware plug-in Configuration page, and then restart the vCenter web client service.

Commit message:

Files are updated for SCV 4.5 refresh3 Aug30

scpivs44_remove_plugin.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: scpivs44_remove_plugin.html
keywords:
summary: 'If you no longer need to use the SnapCenter data protection features, you must disable the SnapCenter VMware plug-in to unregister it from vCenter, then remove the SnapCenter VMware plug-in from vCenter, and then manually delete leftover files.'
---

= Remove SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
If you no longer need to use the SnapCenter data protection features, you must disable the SnapCenter VMware plug-in to unregister it from vCenter, then remove the SnapCenter VMware plug-in from vCenter, and then manually delete leftover files.

.Before you begin

* You must have administrator privileges.
* Make sure that no SnapCenter jobs are running.

.Steps

. Log in to the SnapCenter VMware plug-in management GUI using the format `https://<OVA-IP-address>:8080`.
+
The IP of the SnapCenter VMware plug-in is displayed when you deploy the plug-in.

. Click *Configuration* in the left navigation pane, and then unselect the Service option in the *Plug-in Details* section to disable the plug-in.
. Log in to VMware vSphere.
. In the left navigator screen, right-click the instance of the SnapCenter VMware plug-in (the name of the `.ova` file that was used when the virtual appliance was deployed) and select *Delete from Disk*.
. Navigate to `/etc/vmware/vsphere-ui/vc-packages/vsphere-client-serenity/com.netapp.scvm.webclient-4.5.0.5942045/plugins` and manually delete the following files in the pickup folder of the vCenter server:
// BURT 1378132 observation 61, March 2021 Ronya
+
`vsc-httpclient3-security.jar`
`scv-api-model.jar`
`scvm_webui_service.jar`
`scvm_webui_ui.war`
`gson-2.5.jar`

. If you used the SnapCenter VMware plug-in to support other SnapCenter plug-ins for application-consistent backups, log in to SnapCenter and remove the vSphere host.

.After you finish

The virtual appliance is still deployed but the SnapCenter VMware plug-in is removed.

After removing the host VM for the SnapCenter VMware plug-in, the plug-in might remain listed in vCenter until the local vCenter cache is refreshed. However, because the plug-in was removed, no SnapCenter VMware vSphere operations can be performed on that host. If you want to refresh the local vCenter cache, first make sure the appliance is in a Disabled state on the SnapCenter VMware plug-in Configuration page, and then restart the vCenter web client service.
