scpivs44_restart_the_vmware_vsphere_web_client_service.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: scpivs44_restart_the_vmware_vsphere_web_client_service.html
keywords:
summary:
---

= Restart the VMware vSphere web client service
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

//
// This file was created with NDAC Version 2.0 (August 17, 2020)
//
// 2020-09-09 12:24:26.329038
//

[.lead]
If the SnapCenter VMware vSphere web client starts to behave incorrectly, you might need to clear the browser cache. If the problem persists, then restart the web client service.

=== Restart the VMware vSphere web client service in a Linux vCenter

If your vCenter is on a Linux appliance, then you must use Linux commands to restart the VMware vSphere web client service.

.Before you begin

You must be running vCenter 6.5 or later.

.Steps

. Use SSH to log in to the vCenter Server Appliance as root.
. Access the Appliance Shell or BASH Shell by using the following command:
+
`shell`

. Stop the web client service by using the following HTML5 command:
+
`service-control --stop vsphere-ui`

. Delete all stale #HTML5# scvm packages on vCenter by using the following HTML5 command:
+
`etc/vmware/vsphere-ui/vc-packages/vsphere-client-serenity/`
+
`rm -rf com.netapp.scvm.webclient-<version_number>`
+
[IMPORTANT]
Do not remove the VASA or VSC7.x and later packages.

. Start the web client service by using the following HTML5 command:
+
`service-control --start vsphere-ui`

=== Restart the VMware vSphere web client service in a Windows vCenter

If your vCenter is on a Windows host, then you must use Windows commands to restart the SnapCenter web client service.

.Before you begin

You must be running vCenter 6.5 or later.

.Steps

. Stop the web client service by using the following HTML5 command:
+
`service-control --stop vsphere-ui`
+
Wait for the message `Completed Stop service request`.

. Delete all stale #HTML5# scvm packages on vCenter by performing the following:
.. Navigate to the vCenter vsphere-client-serenity/ folder:
+
`C:\ProgramData\VMware\vCenterServer\cfg\vsphere-ui\`
+
`vc-packages\vsphere-client-serenity\`

.. Delete all plug-in folders with the following name:
+
`com.netapp.scvm.webclient-<version_number>`

. Restart the web client service by using the following HTML5 command:
+
`service-control --start vsphere-ui`
+
Wait for the message `Completed Start service request.`

Commit message:

Files are updated for SCV 4.5 April 3

scpivs44_restart_the_vmware_vsphere_web_client_service.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: scpivs44_restart_the_vmware_vsphere_web_client_service.html
keywords:
summary:
---

= Restart the VMware vSphere web client service
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

//
// This file was created with NDAC Version 2.0 (August 17, 2020)
//
// 2020-09-09 12:24:26.329038
//

[.lead]
If the SnapCenter VMware vSphere web client starts to behave incorrectly, you might need to clear the browser cache. If the problem persists, then restart the web client service.

=== Restart the VMware vSphere web client service in a Linux vCenter

If your vCenter is on a Linux appliance, then you must use Linux commands to restart the VMware vSphere web client service.

.Before you begin

You must be running vCenter 6.5 or later.

.Steps

. Use SSH to log in to the vCenter Server Appliance as root.
. Access the Appliance Shell or BASH Shell by using the following command:
+
`shell`

. Stop the web client service by using the following HTML5 command:
+
`service-control --stop vsphere-ui`

. Delete all stale #HTML5# scvm packages on vCenter by using the following HTML5 command:
+
`etc/vmware/vsphere-ui/vc-packages/vsphere-client-serenity/`
+
`rm -rf com.netapp.scvm.webclient-<version_number>`
+
[IMPORTANT]
Do not remove the VASA or VSC7.x and later packages.

. Start the web client service by using the following HTML5 command:
+
`service-control --start vsphere-ui`

=== Restart the VMware vSphere web client service in a Windows vCenter

If your vCenter is on a Windows host, then you must use Windows commands to restart the SnapCenter web client service.

.Before you begin

You must be running vCenter 6.5 or later.

.Steps

. Navigate to `C:\Program Files\VMware\vCenter Server\bin` then run the following command to stop the web client service:
// BURT 1378132 observation 43, March 2021 Ronya
+
`service-control --stop vsphere-ui`
+
Wait for the message `Completed Stop service request`.

. Delete all stale #HTML5# scvm packages on vCenter by performing the following:
.. Navigate to the vCenter vsphere-client-serenity/ folder:
+
`C:\ProgramData\VMware\vCenterServer\cfg\vsphere-ui\`
+
`vc-packages\vsphere-client-serenity\`

.. Delete all plug-in folders with the following name:
+
`com.netapp.scvm.webclient-<version_number>`

. Restart the web client service by using the following HTML5 command:
+
`service-control --start vsphere-ui`
+
Wait for the message `Completed Start service request.`
