scpivs44_deployment_planning_and_requirements.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: scpivs44_deployment_planning_and_requirements.html
keywords:
summary: 'You should be aware of the deployment requirements before you deploy the virtual appliance.'
---

= Deployment planning and requirements
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You should be aware of the deployment requirements before you deploy the virtual appliance. The deployment requirements are listed in the following tables.

== Host requirements

Before you begin deployment of SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere (SCV), you should be familiar with the host requirements.

* SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere is deployed as a Linux VM regardless of whether you use the plug-in to protect data on Windows systems or Linux systems.

* You should deploy the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere on the vCenter Server.
+
Backup schedules are executed in the time zone in which the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere is deployed. vCenter reports data in the time zone in which the vCenter is located. Therefore, if the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere and vCenter are in different time zones, data in the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere Dashboard might not be the same as the data in the reports.

* You must not deploy the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere in a folder that has a name with special characters.
+
The folder name should not contain the following special characters: $!@#%^&()_+{}';.,*?"<>|

* You must deploy and register a separate, unique instance of the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere for each vCenter Server.
** Each vCenter Server, whether or not it is in Linked Mode, must be paired with a separate instance of the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere.
** Each instance of the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere must be deployed as a separate Linux VM.
+
For example, if you want to perform backups from six different instances of the vCenter Server, then you must deploy the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere on six hosts and each vCenter Server must be paired with a unique instance of the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere.

* To protect vVol VMs (VMs on VMware vVol datastores), you must first deploy ONTAP tools for VMware vSphere. ONTAP tools provisions and configures storage for vVols on ONTAP and on the VMware web client.
+
For more information, see https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere/index.html[ONTAP tools for VMware vSphere^]
+
For the latest information about supported versions of ONTAP tools, see the https://imt.netapp.com/matrix/imt.jsp?components=117018;&solution=1259&isHWU&src=IMT[NetApp Interoperability Matrix Tool^].

* SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere provides limited support of shared PCI or PCIe devices (for example, NVIDIA Grid GPU) due to a limitation of the virtual machines in supporting Storage vMotion. For more information, see the vendor's document Deployment Guide for VMware.
** What is supported:
+
Creating resource groups
+
Creating backups without VM consistency
+
Restoring a complete VM when all the VMDKs are on an NFS datastore and the plug-in does not need to use Storage vMotion
+
Attaching and detaching VMDKs
+
Mounting and unmounting datastores
+
Guest file restores

** What is not supported:
+
Creating backups with VM consistency
+
Restoring a complete VM when one or more VMDKs are on a VMFS datastore.

* For a detailed list of the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere limitations, see the link:scpivs44_release_notes.html[SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere Release Notes^].

== License requirements

|===
|You must provide licenses for… |License requirement

|ONTAP
|One of these: SnapMirror or SnapVault (for secondary data protection regardless of the type of relationship)
|Additional products
|vSphere Standard, Enterprise, or Enterprise Plus
A vSphere license is required to perform restore operations, which use Storage vMotion. vSphere Essentials or Essentials Plus licenses do not include Storage vMotion.
|Primary destinations
|SnapCenter Standard: required to perform application-based protection over VMware
SnapRestore: required to perform restore operations for VMware VMs and datastores only
FlexClone: used for mount and attach operations on VMware VMs and datastores only
|Secondary destinations
|SnapCenter Standard: used for failover operations for application-based protection over VMware
FlexClone: used for mount and attach operations on VMware VMs and datastores only
|===

== Software support
// updated for scv 6.0
|===
|Item |Supported versions

|vCenter vSphere
|7.0U1 and above.
|ESXi Server
|7.0U1 and above. 
// AUGUST 2021 BURT 1419874
|IP addresses
|IPv4, IPv6
|VMware TLS
|1.2, 1.3
//Burt 1474884 May 2022
|TLS on the SnapCenter Server
|1.2, 1.3
//Burt 1474884 May 2022
The SnapCenter Server uses this to communicate with the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere for application over VMDK data protection operations.
|VMware application vStorage API for Array Integration (VAAI)
|SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere uses this to improve performance for restore operations. It also improves performance in NFS environments.
// Vrishali review comments  April2021 Ronya
|ONTAP tools for VMware
|SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere uses this to manage vVol datastores (VMware virtual volumes). For supported versions, see the https://imt.netapp.com/matrix/imt.jsp?components=117018;&solution=1259&isHWU&src=IMT[NetApp Interoperability Matrix Tool^].
|===

For the latest information about supported versions, see the https://imt.netapp.com/matrix/imt.jsp?components=117018;&solution=1259&isHWU&src=IMT[NetApp Interoperability Matrix Tool^].

==== Requirements for NVMe over TCP protocol

The minimum software requirements for NVMe over TCP protocol support are:

* vCenter vSphere 7.0U3
* ESXi 7.0U3
* ONTAP 9.10.1

== Space and sizing requirements

|===
|Item |Requirements

|Operating system
|Linux
|Minimum CPU count
|4 cores
|Minimum RAM
|Minimum: 12 GB
Recommended: 16 GB
|Minimum hard drive space for the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere, logs, and MySQL database
|100 GB
|===

== Connection and port requirements

|===
|Type of port |Preconfigured port

|VMware ESXi Server port
|443 (HTTPS), bidirectional
The Guest File Restore feature uses this port.
//updated for Burt 1502846 (Jani)

|SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere port
a|8144 (HTTPS), bidirectional
The port is used for communications from the VMware vSphere client and from the SnapCenter Server.
8080 bidirectional
This port is used to manage virtual appliances.

Note: Custom port for addition of SCV host to SnapCenter is supported.
|VMware vSphere vCenter Server port
|You must use port 443 if you are protecting vVol VMs.
//Updated for Burt 1433718 3Nov2021 Ronya
|Storage cluster or storage VM port
|443 (HTTPS), bidirectional
80 (HTTP), bidirectional
The port is used for communication between the virtual appliance and the storage VM or the cluster that contains the storage VM.
// Updated for Burt 1435536 3Nov2021 Ronya

|===

== Configurations supported

Each plug-in instance supports only one vCenter Server. vCenters in linked mode are supported. Multiple plug-in instances can support the same SnapCenter Server as shown in the following figure.

image:scpivs44_image4.png["Supported configuration graphical representation"]

== RBAC privileges required

The vCenter administrator account must have the required vCenter privileges, as listed in the following table.

|===
|To do this operation… |You must have these vCenter privileges…

|Deploy and register the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere in vCenter
|Extension: Register extension
|Upgrade or remove the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere
a| Extension

* Update extension
* Unregister extension
|Allow the vCenter Credential user account registered in SnapCenter to validate user access to the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere
|sessions.validate.session
|Allow users to access the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere
|SCV Administrator
SCV Backup
SCV Guest File Restore
SCV Restore
SCV View
The privilege must be assigned at the vCenter root.
|===

== AutoSupport

SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere provides a minimum of information for tracking its usage, including the plug-in URL. AutoSupport includes a table of installed plug-ins that is displayed by the AutoSupport viewer.

Commit message:

Changed see to refer to

scpivs44_deployment_planning_and_requirements.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: scpivs44_deployment_planning_and_requirements.html
keywords:
summary: 'You should be aware of the deployment requirements before you deploy the virtual appliance.'
---

= Deployment planning and requirements
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You should be aware of the deployment requirements before you deploy the virtual appliance. The deployment requirements are listed in the following tables.

== Host requirements

Before you begin deployment of SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere (SCV), you should be familiar with the host requirements.

* SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere is deployed as a Linux VM regardless of whether you use the plug-in to protect data on Windows systems or Linux systems.

* You should deploy the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere on the vCenter Server.
+
Backup schedules are executed in the time zone in which the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere is deployed. vCenter reports data in the time zone in which the vCenter is located. Therefore, if the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere and vCenter are in different time zones, data in the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere Dashboard might not be the same as the data in the reports.

* You must not deploy the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere in a folder that has a name with special characters.
+
The folder name should not contain the following special characters: $!@#%^&()_+{}';.,*?"<>|

* You must deploy and register a separate, unique instance of the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere for each vCenter Server.
** Each vCenter Server, whether or not it is in Linked Mode, must be paired with a separate instance of the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere.
** Each instance of the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere must be deployed as a separate Linux VM.
+
For example, if you want to perform backups from six different instances of the vCenter Server, then you must deploy the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere on six hosts and each vCenter Server must be paired with a unique instance of the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere.

* To protect vVol VMs (VMs on VMware vVol datastores), you must first deploy ONTAP tools for VMware vSphere. ONTAP tools provisions and configures storage for vVols on ONTAP and on the VMware web client.
+
For more information, refer to https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/ontap-tools-vmware-vsphere/index.html[ONTAP tools for VMware vSphere^]
+
For the latest information about supported versions of ONTAP tools, refer to https://imt.netapp.com/matrix/imt.jsp?components=117018;&solution=1259&isHWU&src=IMT[NetApp Interoperability Matrix Tool^].

* SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere provides limited support of shared PCI or PCIe devices (for example, NVIDIA Grid GPU) due to a limitation of the virtual machines in supporting Storage vMotion. For more information, see the vendor's document Deployment Guide for VMware.
** What is supported:
+
Creating resource groups
+
Creating backups without VM consistency
+
Restoring a complete VM when all the VMDKs are on an NFS datastore and the plug-in does not need to use Storage vMotion
+
Attaching and detaching VMDKs
+
Mounting and unmounting datastores
+
Guest file restores

** What is not supported:
+
Creating backups with VM consistency
+
Restoring a complete VM when one or more VMDKs are on a VMFS datastore.

* For a detailed list of the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere limitations, refer to link:scpivs44_release_notes.html[SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere Release Notes^].

== License requirements

|===
|You must provide licenses for… |License requirement

|ONTAP
|One of these: SnapMirror or SnapVault (for secondary data protection regardless of the type of relationship)
|Additional products
|vSphere Standard, Enterprise, or Enterprise Plus
A vSphere license is required to perform restore operations, which use Storage vMotion. vSphere Essentials or Essentials Plus licenses do not include Storage vMotion.
|Primary destinations
|SnapCenter Standard: required to perform application-based protection over VMware
SnapRestore: required to perform restore operations for VMware VMs and datastores only
FlexClone: used for mount and attach operations on VMware VMs and datastores only
|Secondary destinations
|SnapCenter Standard: used for failover operations for application-based protection over VMware
FlexClone: used for mount and attach operations on VMware VMs and datastores only
|===

== Software support
// updated for scv 6.0
|===
|Item |Supported versions

|vCenter vSphere
|7.0U1 and above.
|ESXi Server
|7.0U1 and above. 
// AUGUST 2021 BURT 1419874
|IP addresses
|IPv4, IPv6
|VMware TLS
|1.2, 1.3
//Burt 1474884 May 2022
|TLS on the SnapCenter Server
|1.2, 1.3
//Burt 1474884 May 2022
The SnapCenter Server uses this to communicate with the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere for application over VMDK data protection operations.
|VMware application vStorage API for Array Integration (VAAI)
|SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere uses this to improve performance for restore operations. It also improves performance in NFS environments.
// Vrishali review comments  April2021 Ronya
|ONTAP tools for VMware
|SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere uses this to manage vVol datastores (VMware virtual volumes). For supported versions, refer to https://imt.netapp.com/matrix/imt.jsp?components=117018;&solution=1259&isHWU&src=IMT[NetApp Interoperability Matrix Tool^].
|===

For the latest information about supported versions, refer to https://imt.netapp.com/matrix/imt.jsp?components=117018;&solution=1259&isHWU&src=IMT[NetApp Interoperability Matrix Tool^].

==== Requirements for NVMe over TCP protocol

The minimum software requirements for NVMe over TCP protocol support are:

* vCenter vSphere 7.0U3
* ESXi 7.0U3
* ONTAP 9.10.1

== Space and sizing requirements

|===
|Item |Requirements

|Operating system
|Linux
|Minimum CPU count
|4 cores
|Minimum RAM
|Minimum: 12 GB
Recommended: 16 GB
|Minimum hard drive space for the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere, logs, and MySQL database
|100 GB
|===

== Connection and port requirements

|===
|Type of port |Preconfigured port

|VMware ESXi Server port
|443 (HTTPS), bidirectional
The Guest File Restore feature uses this port.
//updated for Burt 1502846 (Jani)

|SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere port
a|8144 (HTTPS), bidirectional
The port is used for communications from the VMware vSphere client and from the SnapCenter Server.
8080 bidirectional
This port is used to manage virtual appliances.

Note: Custom port for addition of SCV host to SnapCenter is supported.
|VMware vSphere vCenter Server port
|You must use port 443 if you are protecting vVol VMs.
//Updated for Burt 1433718 3Nov2021 Ronya
|Storage cluster or storage VM port
|443 (HTTPS), bidirectional
80 (HTTP), bidirectional
The port is used for communication between the virtual appliance and the storage VM or the cluster that contains the storage VM.
// Updated for Burt 1435536 3Nov2021 Ronya

|===

== Configurations supported

Each plug-in instance supports only one vCenter Server. vCenters in linked mode are supported. Multiple plug-in instances can support the same SnapCenter Server as shown in the following figure.

image:scpivs44_image4.png["Supported configuration graphical representation"]

== RBAC privileges required

The vCenter administrator account must have the required vCenter privileges, as listed in the following table.

|===
|To do this operation… |You must have these vCenter privileges…

|Deploy and register the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere in vCenter
|Extension: Register extension
|Upgrade or remove the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere
a| Extension

* Update extension
* Unregister extension
|Allow the vCenter Credential user account registered in SnapCenter to validate user access to the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere
|sessions.validate.session
|Allow users to access the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere
|SCV Administrator
SCV Backup
SCV Guest File Restore
SCV Restore
SCV View
The privilege must be assigned at the vCenter root.
|===

== AutoSupport

SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere provides a minimum of information for tracking its usage, including the plug-in URL. AutoSupport includes a table of installed plug-ins that is displayed by the AutoSupport viewer.
