scpivs44_restore_from_backups_overview.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: scpivs44_restore_from_backups_overview.html
keywords:
summary:
---

= Overview
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

//
// This file was created with NDAC Version 2.0 (August 17, 2020)
//
// 2020-09-09 12:24:24.060765
//

[.lead]
You can restore VMs, VMDKs, files, and folders from primary or secondary backups.

* VM restore destinations
+
In SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere 4.4 and earlier, you can restore VMs only to the original host and datastore.
+
Beginning in SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere 4.5, you can restore VMs to the original host, or to an alternate host in the same vCenter Server, or to an alternate ESXi host managed by the same vCenter or any vCenter in linked mode.

* VMDK restore destinations
+
You can restore VMDKs to either the original or to an alternate datastore.

You can also restore individual files and folders in a guest file restore session, which attaches a backup copy of a virtual disk and then restores the selected files or folders.

You cannot restore the following:

* Datastores
+
You cannot use the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere to restore a datastore, only the individual VMs in the datastore.

* Backups of removed VMs
+
You cannot restore backups of storage VMs that have been removed. For example, if you add a storage VM using the management LIF and then create a backup, and then you remove that storage VM and add a cluster that contains that same storage VM, the restore operation for the backup will fail.

Commit message:

Files are updated for SCV 4.5 refresh3 Aug30

scpivs44_restore_from_backups_overview.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: scpivs44_restore_from_backups_overview.html
keywords:
summary: 'You can restore VMs, VMDKs, files, and folders from primary or secondary backups.'
---

= Overview
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

//
// This file was created with NDAC Version 2.0 (August 17, 2020)
//
// 2020-09-09 12:24:24.060765
//

[.lead]
You can restore VMs, VMDKs, files, and folders from primary or secondary backups.

* VM restore destinations
+
In SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere 4.4 and earlier, you can restore VMs only to the original host and datastore.
+
Beginning in SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere 4.5, you can restore VMs to the original host, or to an alternate host in the same vCenter Server, or to an alternate ESXi host managed by the same vCenter or any vCenter in linked mode.

* VMDK restore destinations
+
You can restore VMDKs to either the original or to an alternate datastore.

You can also restore individual files and folders in a guest file restore session, which attaches a backup copy of a virtual disk and then restores the selected files or folders.

You cannot restore the following:

* Datastores
+
You cannot use the SnapCenter Plug-in for VMware vSphere to restore a datastore, only the individual VMs in the datastore.

* Backups of removed VMs
+
You cannot restore backups of storage VMs that have been removed. For example, if you add a storage VM using the management LIF and then create a backup, and then you remove that storage VM and add a cluster that contains that same storage VM, the restore operation for the backup will fail.
