scpivs44_unmount_a_backup.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: scpivs44_unmount_a_backup.html
keywords:
summary:
---

= Unmount a backup
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

//
// This file was created with NDAC Version 2.0 (August 17, 2020)
//
// 2020-09-09 12:24:23.957557
//

[.lead]
You can unmount a backup when you no longer need to access the files in the datastore.

If a backup is listed as mounted in the VMware vSphere web client GUI, but it is not listed in the unmount backup screen, then you need to use the REST API `/backup/{backup-Id}/cleanup` to clean up the out-of-bound datastores and then try the unmount procedure again.

If you attempt to mount a backup copy of an NFS datastore on a storage VM (SVM) with the root volume in a load-sharing mirror relationship and you might encounter the error `You may have reached the maximum number of NFS volumes configured in the vCenter. Check the vSphere Client for any error messages.` To prevent this problem, change the maximum volumes setting by navigating to *ESX* > *Manage* > *Settings* > *Advance System Settings* and changing the NFS.MaxVolumes value. Maximum value is 256.

.Steps

. In the VMware vSphere web client, click *Menu* in the toolbar, and then select *Storage* from the drop-down list.
. In the left Navigator pane, right-click a datastore, then select *NetApp SnapCenter* in the drop-down list, and then select Unmount in the secondary drop-down list.
+
[IMPORTANT]
Make sure that you select the correct datastore to unmount. Otherwise, you might cause an impact on production work.

. In the *Unmount Cloned Datastore* dialog box, select a datastore, select the *Unmount the cloned datastore* checkbox, and then click *Unmount*.

Commit message:

Files are updated for SCV 4.5 refresh3 Aug30

scpivs44_unmount_a_backup.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: scpivs44_unmount_a_backup.html
keywords:
summary: 'You can unmount a backup when you no longer need to access the files in the datastore.'
---

= Unmount a backup
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

//
// This file was created with NDAC Version 2.0 (August 17, 2020)
//
// 2020-09-09 12:24:23.957557
//

[.lead]
You can unmount a backup when you no longer need to access the files in the datastore.

If a backup is listed as mounted in the VMware vSphere web client GUI, but it is not listed in the unmount backup screen, then you need to use the REST API `/backup/{backup-Id}/cleanup` to clean up the out-of-bound datastores and then try the unmount procedure again.

If you attempt to mount a backup copy of an NFS datastore on a storage VM (SVM) with the root volume in a load-sharing mirror relationship and you might encounter the error `You may have reached the maximum number of NFS volumes configured in the vCenter. Check the vSphere Client for any error messages.` To prevent this problem, change the maximum volumes setting by navigating to *ESX* > *Manage* > *Settings* > *Advance System Settings* and changing the NFS.MaxVolumes value. Maximum value is 256.

.Steps

. In the VMware vSphere web client, click *Menu* in the toolbar, and then select *Storage* from the drop-down list.
. In the left Navigator pane, right-click a datastore, then select *NetApp SnapCenter* in the drop-down list, and then select Unmount in the secondary drop-down list.
+
[IMPORTANT]
Make sure that you select the correct datastore to unmount. Otherwise, you might cause an impact on production work.

. In the *Unmount Cloned Datastore* dialog box, select a datastore, select the *Unmount the cloned datastore* checkbox, and then click *Unmount*.
